 Retail lending in India has grown dramatically over the last decade. Personal loans, two-wheeler loans, consumer-durable loans, gold loans, credit-card revolving balances, salary advances and a long tail of buy-now-pay-later style products are now offered by a mix of public-sector banks, private banks, small finance banks, non-banking financial companies (NBFCs) and a rapidly multiplying set of digital-only fintech lenders. The flip side of growth in originations is growth in delinquencies. A small but non-trivial percentage of every disbursed cohort fails to pay an installment on or before the due date, and the lender is obliged by Reserve Bank of India (RBI) policy and by basic prudence to chase those installments before the account is allowed to slide into the non-performing-asset bucket. The chasing of overdue installments is what the industry calls ``collections''. Once an account is more than one day past due (DPD), it enters a structured pipeline of follow-up actions whose intensity and tone escalate with the number of days the account remains unpaid. The classical bucketing in Indian retail collections is shown in Table~ . [h] lll & & Bucket 0 & 1--30 days & Soft reminders, automated calls, light SMS Bucket 1 & 31--60 days & Tele-calling, WhatsApp, agent calls Bucket 2 & 61--90 days & Field visits, legal notice preparation Bucket 3 & 91--120 days & Pre-write-off, recovery escalation NPA & 120+ days & Settlement, legal action For most retail products, the recovery rate falls off sharply as the bucket deepens. A loan that is collected in Bucket 0 is recovered cheaply, requires almost no negotiation, does not need any provisioning hit on the lender's balance sheet and rarely produces a customer complaint. A loan that drifts into Bucket 3 or beyond is materially more expensive to recover, often requires settlement at a discount, consumes legal team hours and erodes the customer relationship. The economic case for early-bucket recovery is therefore overwhelming, and every lender invests disproportionate effort in trying to get accounts cured as early in their delinquency life as possible. Operationally, however, early-bucket follow-up is hard at scale. A lender with a hundred thousand active retail loans can easily have eight to twelve thousand accounts in Bucket 0 on any given day. Each of those accounts needs a contact attempt -- a phone call, a SMS reminder, a WhatsApp nudge, sometimes a personal visit -- within a tight cycle so that the customer pays before the next cut-off date and the bucket statistics do not deteriorate. To do this, lenders either build large in-house collections teams or, more commonly, outsource the recovery work in monthly batches to specialised collection agencies who keep a percentage of the recovered amount as their commission. The internship that produced the work documented in this report was carried out at Ignosis, a Bengaluru-and-Ahmedabad-headquartered fintech infrastructure company. Ignosis is primarily known in the Account Aggregator (AA) ecosystem -- it is one of the larger Financial Information Users (FIU) building consented data pipelines for underwriting, fraud detection and personal financial management on top of the RBI-regulated AA framework. Over the last eighteen months, the firm has used its existing relationships with lenders to layer a second product onto its platform: a collections suite that runs on the same multi-tenant infrastructure, reuses the same Keycloak identity stack and the same Solr search backbone, and integrates AA-pulled bank-statement data into collection prioritisation. I joined the company as a comprehensive-project intern in December 2025 and worked there full-time through May 2026. The engineering team is split into two product pods -- AA / FIU and Collections -- with several engineers, like me, contributing across both. Day-to-day work happens in two GitLab repositories: , the Spring Boot backend plus React dashboards plus Python tooling that powers the collections product; and , the TypeScript / Node.js monorepo that contains the WhatsApp automation library, the Electron desktop client, the Android SMS sender and a number of operational scripts. The title of this comprehensive project is . The platform is a multi-tenant web application that provides: A case management dashboard for human agents. A bulk campaign module that wraps thousands of cases into a single executable run. An AI voice calling engine that runs autonomously, without an agent in the loop. Multi-channel outreach automation across WhatsApp and SMS. Analytics on contact rates, agent productivity, call dispositions and recovery percentages. The collections function for a typical Indian retail lender, in the absence of a centralised software platform, suffers from a small number of structural problems that compound on each other: The lender hands a CSV or Excel file of delinquent accounts to the agency at the start of every monthly cycle. The agency manager then distributes those cases by hand across the agents on the floor. The mapping is opaque to the lender, hard to audit and hard to reproduce. Agents reach for the desk phone first; if the customer does not pick up the phone they may or may not also send a SMS. There is no orchestrated follow-up across phone, WhatsApp and SMS, which means many customers are never reached on the channel they are likely to respond on. Agents spend a significant fraction of their working day searching for the next case in a spreadsheet, dialling a number manually and reading the customer's history before each call. The actual conversation is only a fraction of the working minute. A human agent's working day ends at 6 PM or 7 PM. After that the lender effectively has no contact channel even though many salaried customers are most reachable in the late evening. Recovery rates are reported as a single number at month-end. Lenders cannot inspect bucket-level conversion, channel-level effectiveness or agent-level productivity in any meaningful way. WhatsApp and SMS gateways available through business APIs throttle aggressively, charge per message and are subject to template-approval delays. SIM-based outreach from real consumer-grade numbers has materially higher deliverability but no off-the-shelf platform exposes that capability to the collections team. The problem statement of this project, in compact form, can therefore be stated as: The motivation for this project sits at the intersection of an industry pain point and a technology opening. On the industry side, every percentage point of recovery in Bucket 0 directly improves the lender's Gross Non-Performing Asset (GNPA) metric, reduces provisioning and saves real money. A platform that lifts the early-bucket collection rate from a typical 60--70 percent to the mid-80s -- the target that the Ignosis customer base has set for itself -- is materially valuable to the lender. On the technology side, three developments have made an AI-driven collections platform far more practical than it would have been even three years ago: Speech-to-text accuracy on Indian-English and on the major Indian regional languages has crossed the threshold at which an AI agent can hold an outbound collection conversation that actually moves the needle. Providers such as Bolna (the partner used in this project) and Smallest.ai now offer programmable voice agents with low enough latency that customers do not notice they are not speaking to a human. The AA framework allows a lender to fetch the customer's bank statements with explicit consent. This pulls the conversation forward from ``please pay'' to ``we can see your salary was credited yesterday, what is a convenient EMI date for you'' -- a far more effective prompt. It is now feasible to operate a bank of consumer-grade SIM cards in a software-controlled rotation, sending WhatsApp messages through real phone numbers and SMS through real Android devices. This bypasses the deliverability ceiling of business APIs. Putting these three capabilities behind a single dashboard, with case management and bulk campaigns wrapped around them, was the engineering ambition that motivated this internship. The concrete objectives of the project, all of which were either fully or partially achieved during the internship, are: To develop a centralised case management interface, accessible to authenticated collection agents over the browser, that lists assigned cases, surfaces customer payment history and previous interaction notes, and lets the agent act on each case. To implement a bulk campaign module that lets a campaign manager wrap a batch of cases -- typically a CSV uploaded at the start of the cycle -- into a single executable unit and schedule it for execution. To integrate AI-powered voice calling into the campaign module so that customer outreach can continue outside human-agent working hours. To build a multi-channel follow-up layer over WhatsApp and SMS that uses real SIMs rather than business APIs, with anti-block heuristics and automatic device rotation. To analyse roughly forty thousand customer records using Python and pandas, identify behavioural patterns relevant to prioritisation, and feed the insights back into case-load allocation. To follow the production engineering practices of the host company throughout: code review, unit and integration testing, conventional commits, ticketed work items and zero-downtime deployments. The scope of the work undertaken during the internship covers the following: Backend contributions to the multi-tenant Spring Boot 3.2 monolith , including JPA entities, REST controllers, services, scheduled jobs and Liquibase migrations. Frontend contributions to the React (UmiJS + Ant Design Pro) dashboard for case management, campaign execution and analytics. A separate TypeScript / Node.js monorepo, , that contains the WhatsApp automation library based on Baileys, the Electron desktop application, the Android SMS sender app and a Hono REST API server. A one-off Python-pandas analysis on customer-level transaction and repayment data. The scope explicitly excludes the AI voice agent itself (this is the Bolna service that the team purchased on a vendor basis), the telephony gateway (Exotel), the cloud infrastructure provisioning (AWS), the lender's internal LMS and the regulatory compliance review. The approach taken on this project was iterative and code-first. Rather than write a long design document up-front and then implement it, the engineering team at Ignosis follows a plan-first-but-small workflow: each piece of work begins as a short Markdown plan attached to a Jira ticket, which is reviewed by the lead engineer (Mr.~Rahi Shah in my case), is then translated into a branch with conventional commits, and is shipped to a development environment within a few days. Production deployment happens after code review, integration testing in a staging tenant and verification by the QA team. Every artefact -- the plan, the branch, the merge request, the QA notes -- is preserved in the repository so that the entire decision trail is auditable months later. This approach is the dominant cultural fact about how the work was done, and it explains why the contributions described in this report are spread across several Git branches that build on one another rather than concentrated in a single feature branch. The remainder of this report is organised as follows. A review of the relevant prior art: collection-management products in the Indian and global market, AI voice calling and conversational agent research, the WhatsApp multi-device protocol and the academic literature on anti-spam and rate-limiting strategies for messaging platforms. The chapter ends by sharpening the problem statement of Chapter 1 into a set of concrete engineering requirements. A detailed description of the architecture of the platform, of the development methodology used at Ignosis, and of the specific modules contributed during the internship. The chapter walks through the backend monolith, the dashboard, the campaign engine, the AI voice calling integration, the WhatsApp automation library, the Electron desktop application and the Android SMS sender app. Selected source-code excerpts and pseudocode are included where they illuminate non-obvious engineering decisions. Quantitative and qualitative results from the deployment. The chapter reports the early-bucket collection rate, the percentage of cases recovered within the first five days, the contact rate uplift from multi-channel outreach, the throughput of the AI voice agent, and the WhatsApp block rate observed in production. A summary of what was achieved during the internship, a candid discussion of what could have been done better, and a roadmap for the features that the engineering team intends to build on top of the platform over the next two quarters. The Bibliography and an Appendix containing selected source-code listings round out the document. 

 The space of commercial collection-management products in India is dominated by a small handful of vendors whose offerings predate the recent wave of conversational AI. CreditMantri, Spocto, Cred and a few internal tools built by the larger private-sector banks make up the majority of the visible deployments. The architecture of these products tends to follow a familiar shape -- a case management database, a dialer integration, some reporting -- but the actual conversational layer (the part that does the calling and the messaging) is almost always human-driven. WhatsApp, where it is used, is plugged in through the official Cloud API published by Meta and is therefore subject to template-approval delays, throughput throttling and per-message pricing that grows linearly with volume. The academic literature on collection software per se is thin -- most of the deep work happens inside banks and is not published -- but the adjacent literature on customer-relationship-management systems, on contact-centre optimisation and on credit-scoring models is large. Verma, Mathur and Singh~ survey machine learning techniques applied to behavioural credit data, several of which are directly applicable to predicting which customer is most likely to respond to which channel. Wang and Zhang~ review predictive dialers and the queue-management algorithms that underpin them. None of this prior work, however, addresses the combination of AI voice calling, AA-data-driven prioritisation and SIM-based WhatsApp automation that motivates the present project. The maturity of conversational voice agents is the single biggest technology shift that makes an AI-driven collection platform possible. The early generations of interactive voice response (IVR) -- the touch-tone menus that everyone has shouted at on the bank's customer-care line -- could not hold an open-ended conversation and were limited to deterministic decision trees. Modern voice agents are built on a pipeline of automatic speech recognition (ASR), a large language model (LLM) for dialogue generation, and a text-to-speech (TTS) synthesiser, with each component reaching real-time latency budgets that did not exist three years ago. Bolna~ is the conversational voice provider that Ignosis uses in production. Internally Bolna chains a low-latency ASR (typically Deepgram or a Whisper-based model), a fine-tuned LLM hosted on a serverless GPU backend and a TTS engine that can emit Indian English with regional-accent variation. The latency budget Bolna advertises is roughly 700~ms from the customer finishing their utterance to the agent beginning to speak, which is below the 800--900~ms threshold at which human listeners begin to detect awkwardness. The agent state and the prompt template are configured per tenant through a YAML file that the engineering team manages with a small Python tool. Open-source baselines such as Pipecat~ and LiveKit Agents~ were briefly evaluated by the engineering team before the choice of Bolna was finalised. The decision matrix turned out to be dominated by Indian-English ASR accuracy on rural and semi-urban customers, the ability to pass the customer's bank-statement-derived context into the prompt, and the maturity of the post-call extraction pipeline (Bolna emits a structured JSON of the outcome -- promise-to-pay, dispute, wrong-number, no-answer -- which is consumed by the workflow engine). WhatsApp's multi-device protocol, rolled out in 2021, allows up to four secondary devices to share end-to-end-encrypted access to a primary phone's WhatsApp account without the phone needing to be online. The protocol uses a Signal-derived key ratchet for message encryption and a per-device session key for the secondary devices. The official integration path for businesses is the WhatsApp Cloud API, which sits on top of the same protocol but exposes a REST interface and enforces a template-message policy for the first message in any conversation. The Cloud API throttles at the conversation level and prices each message individually. For a collection use case, the Cloud API is operationally restrictive in three ways. First, every outbound template has to be approved by Meta, which adds days to the iteration loop when new wording is required. Second, the per-message pricing makes the channel uneconomic for the long-tail of low-ticket-size cases, where the recovery itself may only be a few hundred rupees. Third, customers tend to be more responsive to messages that come from real consumer-grade WhatsApp numbers than from the obviously-branded business accounts. The open-source community has produced a number of WhatsApp protocol re-implementations to support multi-device automation without going through the Cloud API. Baileys~ is the most widely deployed of these: it is a TypeScript library that speaks the WhatsApp WebSocket protocol directly, supports pairing through QR codes and persists session state through a multi-file authentication store. whatsapp-web.js~ , in contrast, drives a real Chromium browser through Puppeteer and screen-scrapes the WhatsApp Web client. Both libraries are gray-area in the sense that they reverse-engineer Meta's protocol; both have been deployed for years in collection-adjacent industries without legal action; both are sensitive to upstream protocol updates and require occasional patching. A non-trivial part of the engineering effort for SIM-based WhatsApp automation goes into avoiding the spam-detection heuristics that Meta runs against suspicious accounts. The exact rules are not published, but the community has converged on a small number of practices that materially reduce the rate at which accounts are flagged or banned. Mihail et al.~ review the academic literature on spam detection in messaging platforms and the corresponding evasion strategies. The recurring themes are the importance of randomised intervals between messages, the use of natural language variation to defeat hash-based fingerprinting, the simulation of typing presence and the enforcement of conservative daily caps. Empirically the strongest signals that a number is being used for spam appear to be: A very high message rate from a freshly registered number. Long sequences of identical message bodies. Bursty sending without natural break patterns. A high rejection rate from recipients (block, report). A pattern of messages timed mechanically (e.g. exactly 30 seconds apart). The platform built in this project addresses each of these signals: each sender phone has a daily cap, every outgoing message body is varied at the word level using inline alternates and zero-width-space insertion, the inter-message delay is jittered by $ $40 percent around a per-sender base interval, batches of messages are followed by short breaks that imitate human typing breaks, and the workers honour an active-hours window that maps to typical Indian working hours. The Account Aggregator framework~ , regulated by the Reserve Bank of India through Master Direction NBFC-AA dated 2016 and progressively expanded ever since, allows a regulated Financial Information User (FIU) to request the bank statements, GST returns or insurance information of a customer with their explicit, time-bound and revocable consent. Ignosis is one of the larger FIUs in the ecosystem. The collections platform consumes AA-derived bank-statement data through the same internal data layer that the AA / FIU product uses, which means that when a customer in the collections cycle has an active AA consent on file the collection workflow can branch on signals such as recent salary credit, recent large debits, balance trend or detected income source. This is the data input that lifts the AI calling conversation from a generic ``please pay'' to a tailored ``we noticed your salary was credited on the 1st, what date works for you''. Keycloak~ is the open-source identity and access management server used by Ignosis as the single sign-on backbone. Each tenant is implemented as a separate Keycloak realm, with its own users, groups, client scopes and role bindings. The Spring Boot backend integrates with Keycloak through the OAuth 2 Resource Server and the Keycloak admin client. Per-request tenant resolution is host-based: the URL the user hits determines the Keycloak realm that the JWT was issued by, and a small thread-local context object propagates the tenant identity through every downstream call, including across asynchronous boundaries. The use of Keycloak removes a large amount of authentication code that would otherwise have to be written by the engineering team, supports federation to lender-side identity systems (some banks insist on running their own IdP and federating into ours), and lets us move customer-facing collections agents and bank-side operations users behind the same access-control surface. The case search layer is implemented over Apache Solr~ , a search server built on top of Apache Lucene. Each tenant has a dedicated Solr core into which the case data is indexed. Solr was chosen over Elasticsearch for two reasons: it was already in use elsewhere in the company for the AA / FIU product, and the eDisMax query parser is sufficient for the relatively simple lookup patterns that the collections dashboard requires (find by phone, by name, by loan account number, with faceted filtering by bucket, agent and status). The Solr client pool inside the Spring Boot backend is one client per tenant, with a custom Apache HTTP connection manager configured to prevent the idle-connection leaks that bit the team earlier in the year on the AWS ECS containers. The collection workflow is configurable per tenant -- a private bank tenant might prefer to call before sending a WhatsApp, while an NBFC tenant might prefer to send the WhatsApp first and only call if the message bounces. Hard-coding this would explode the conditional logic across the codebase, so the engineering team built a small MVEL2-based workflow engine inside the orchestrator. MVEL (the MVFLEX Expression Language)~ is a Java-friendly expression language that evaluates string templates against a context object, in our case a map of workflow variables documented in a dedicated Markdown reference. Workflow nodes are defined declaratively, the transitions between them are MVEL expressions, and the engine drives the case through the graph in response to call outcomes, payment events and clock ticks. This is by far the most powerful single piece of infrastructure in the platform, and the project as a whole would not be feasible without it. The observability layer of the platform combines three open-source tools. Prometheus~ scrapes Micrometer-emitted metrics from the Spring Boot actuator endpoint; the dashboard for those metrics is hosted on Grafana with role-based access. Sentry~ (in our case the internal compatibility shim, not the public SaaS) captures exceptions and ties them to release tags. ClickHouse~ is used as the analytics warehouse: every business-relevant event -- call disposition, escalation, prompt-variable miss, recovery -- is fire-and-forget inserted into a ClickHouse table that is queried both by the in-product dashboard and by the data team. On the basis of the prior art reviewed in the preceding sections, the specific engineering problems that this project sets out to solve can be sharpened as follows: Each tenant onboards its delinquent allocations as a monthly CSV. The platform must absorb that CSV, validate it, deduplicate it against the previous month's cases, assign cases to agents according to the tenant's allocation policy, and render the assigned cases in a paginated dashboard for the agent. The agent needs to see, on a single page, every artefact relevant to a customer: contact information, demographic snapshot, full loan and payment history, every prior call transcript and outcome, every WhatsApp and SMS thread, every AA-derived data signal, and the current bucket. Pulling this together synchronously from a normalised database would be slow, so the layer needs careful pagination, lazy loading and selective denormalisation. A campaign is a wrapper around a subset of cases that the manager wants to execute as a single batch. It must be creatable from a CSV (with validation against required columns), schedulable, pausable and resumable, and it must integrate with both the AI voice calling engine and the multi-channel messaging layer. When an agent is working through a campaign, the workflow must auto-load the next case as soon as the agent submits the disposition for the current call. There must be no waiting on the agent's part to click through to the next case. The AI voice agent must be triggerable both as part of a campaign and as a standalone fallback when an agent's manual call fails. The call outcome must be parsed from Bolna's webhook, persisted, and used to advance the case through the workflow. The platform must send WhatsApp messages from a pool of consumer-grade phone numbers, rotate the pool to spread load, vary the message body to defeat spam detection, throttle the sending rate to stay below the daily cap, and route around banned numbers without operator intervention. For cases where WhatsApp delivery fails, the platform must send a SMS through a real Android phone on a real consumer SIM, with the dispatch driven by a mobile app running on the agent's or the manager's phone. Every action -- every call, every message, every state transition, every workflow node entry -- must be logged in a manner that lets the QA team reconstruct what happened to any given case at any given point in time. The platform must serve multiple lender tenants from a single deployment with strict isolation of data, of identity and of configuration. These nine problems form the working set against which the methodology and implementation in the next chapter is judged. 

 This chapter forms the bulk of the report. It describes the architecture of the AI-Based Collections Platform, the development methodology followed at Ignosis and the specific implementation work that I contributed during the internship. Where useful, abridged source-code listings are included; complete listings are deferred to Appendix~A. The Ignosis engineering team practises a plan-first, ship-small, code-review-heavy variant of agile delivery. Each unit of work begins in Jira and is decomposed into a short Markdown plan stored in the repository under . The plan answers four questions: what is the user-visible behaviour, what entities or tables change, what services or controllers are added or modified, and what tests need to be written. The plan is reviewed by the engineering lead before any code is written. Once accepted, a branch is created from following the Gitflow naming convention -- typically or -- and the implementation begins. Conventional commits are enforced. Each commit is prefixed with a type ( , , , , , ) and a scope. Pull requests are squashed into a single commit on the receiving branch only when the history is messy; otherwise the rebased history is preserved. The Ignosis main branch ( ) is treated as the release branch. Tags follow semantic versioning. The current version of the orchestrator at the time of writing is 1.5.1. Tests live next to the code they exercise. The repository is configured with JUnit 5 and Mockito on the Java side and Vitest on the TypeScript side. Integration tests run against a Testcontainers-managed PostgreSQL instance, an embedded H2 for the lighter repository tests, and a stubbed Bolna service over Spring's . The pipeline aborts when SonarQube reports either a new bug, a new code smell above the medium severity threshold or a new vulnerability of any severity. SonarQube also enforces a code-coverage floor of fifty percent on changed lines. Figure~ sketches the architecture of the platform at the deployment level. The system is a layered web application with five named layers: the client layer (browsers and the Electron desktop client), the API layer (the Spring Boot back-end and the Node.js automation service), the data layer (PostgreSQL, Solr, ClickHouse and the WhatsApp session store), the communication layer (telephony, the WhatsApp protocol library and the SMS gateway), and the customer at the far end of the funnel. [H] |c| React (UmiJS, Ant Design Pro) $|$ Electron desktop agent client $|$ Android SMS sender app c$ $ Keycloak (OIDC) $|$ Spring Boot 3.2 (collection-orchestrator) $|$ Hono / Node.js (collection-scripts) c$ $ PostgreSQL (cases, campaigns) $|$ Apache Solr (search) $|$ ClickHouse (analytics) $|$ Redis (queues, locks) c$ $ Bolna + Exotel (AI voice) $|$ WhatsApp via Baileys $|$ SMS via Android SIM c$ $ The choice of a single multi-tenant monolith for the backend, rather than a fleet of microservices, was deliberate. The team is small (about a dozen engineers), the deployment volume is modest (currently four active lender tenants), and the operational overhead of microservices was judged disproportionate to the benefit. The orchestrator is, however, internally layered along clean boundaries -- controllers, services, repositories, model entities, DTOs -- so that an eventual split, if growth demands it, would not require a rewrite. The backend is implemented in Java 17 with Spring Boot 3.2.5. The Maven build is structured as a multi-module project with three sub-modules: (the actual backend), (a Vite-built React 19 dashboard that is being introduced in parallel with the older Umi one), and (a Mintlify-generated documentation portal that is embedded into the JAR under the path). The backend is divided into two top-level Java packages: and . The former hosts the collection-specific domain -- cases, campaigns, voice calling, the QA review module and the agent dashboards. The latter hosts the AA / FIU domain whose entities and base classes ( , ) are reused across the collections side. Within the package the layering is conventional: contains the REST controllers, contains the business logic, contains the JPA repositories with QueryDSL custom interfaces, contains the JPA entities, contains the request and response DTOs, and contains the Spring beans for the various external integrations. Multi-tenancy is implemented via host-based routing. A small servlet filter, , inspects the incoming request's header and looks up the corresponding tenant identifier in a configuration map. The tenant identifier is set on a held by the class and is read by every downstream layer that needs to scope its work to a tenant. The thread-local is dangerous in the presence of asynchronous code, because the Spring default executor does not propagate request-scoped state. To handle this the team introduced , a small wrapper around that captures the tenant identifier on the calling thread and re-establishes it on the worker thread. All asynchronous code in the codebase is expected to go through this wrapper -- raw is forbidden -- and a Sonar rule is configured to detect violations. Authentication and authorisation are layered. Five separate beans run in priority order and each one matches a disjoint subset of the URL space. The most important chains are: The OAuth 2 Resource Server chain for dashboard requests. The JWT issuer is the Keycloak realm of the resolved tenant. An API-key chain for tenant-issued credentials, used by the lender-side automation that posts allocation files to our REST endpoints. A webhook chain that authenticates Bolna's call-status webhook posts using a shared secret in a custom header. A second API-key chain for AA partner callbacks. A legacy chain for collection partner APIs that pre-dates the OAuth integration. The security configuration is consolidated in , which is a single Spring class that declares all five chains. The order is important -- the JWT chain must come last because it would otherwise reject the webhook requests. The case management dashboard is the agent-facing surface of the platform. It is implemented as a React application using the UmiJS framework and the Ant Design Pro component library. Two screens dominated my work on the dashboard: the case listing and the case detail. The case listing screen displays the cases currently assigned to the logged-in agent in a paginated table. The columns are customer name, loan account number, days past due, overdue amount, last contact attempt and current status. The table is server-side paginated; the page size defaults to twenty and is configurable up to one hundred. The backend endpoint that serves the listing is /cases. It accepts a parameter, a parameter, a parameter and any number of filter parameters that map onto QueryDSL predicates -- , , , , , . The repository is a QueryDSL custom implementation that builds the predicate dynamically and projects the row into a thin DTO so the entity graph is not fetched in full. Implementing this endpoint required learning the Spring Data JPA paging contract, the QueryDSL fluent API and the Ant Design Pro component on the frontend in parallel, which is described in Week 5 of the weekly progress report. The case detail screen is the heavyweight artefact in the dashboard. A single case detail page combines: Customer contact information: name, primary phone, alternate phones, email, address. Loan information: product, principal, tenor, interest rate, EMI amount, current outstanding, days past due, bucket. Full payment history: every EMI charged, every payment received, every bounce, every late fee. Interaction history: every call (manual or AI), with its outcome, duration, recording link and transcript; every WhatsApp message thread; every SMS log; every agent note. AA-derived signals (when available): recent salary credits, recent large debits, balance trend over thirty days, detected income source. Workflow status: current node in the workflow, attempted retries, scheduled next action. To avoid a synchronous fan-out across half-a-dozen tables, the detail page uses progressive loading. The first request returns the core customer and loan information; the interaction history, payment history and AA signals are loaded as separate XHRs in parallel. The Ant Design Pro and components are used to render the page; a small library of formatting helpers ( , , ) provides consistent currency, date and badge presentation across the screens. A campaign is the unit of bulk work in the platform. A campaign manager creates a campaign, uploads a CSV of customer rows, optionally previews and corrects the data, and submits the campaign for execution. The platform then drives the campaign through the workflow engine until every case in the campaign reaches a terminal state. The campaign creation form collects the campaign name, an optional description, a priority (low / medium / high), a target collection amount, an assignment rule (round-robin, weighted, manual) and a calling window (active hours during which AI calls are permitted). The CSV upload field accepts files up to fifty megabytes; on the client side the file is validated for extension, size and required columns before being submitted to the backend. The backend endpoint /campaigns accepts the form fields and the file as multipart data. The parses the CSV with the OpenCSV library, validates each row (phone present, due amount numeric and positive, name present, account number valid format), and emits a preview response that contains the total row count, the count of valid rows, the count of invalid rows and, for each invalid row, the row number and the reason. The campaign manager reviews the preview, fixes obvious issues if needed and submits the campaign for execution. On final submission, the backend persists a entity along with one per valid row. Each carries the customer phone, name, due amount and an initial state of . The campaign goes into the or state depending on whether a future start time was set. A first-pass scheduler picks up the campaign on its next tick and begins enqueueing jobs. Job execution inside the orchestrator is built around a database-backed job queue. A row carries a payload (a JSON blob), a job type (one of about a dozen enum values), a state ( , , , , ), a scheduled-for timestamp and a tenant identifier. A scheduled service polls for jobs whose scheduled-for time is in the past, takes a row-level lock with a 180-second TTL via the table, looks up the executor for the job type, and runs it. The advantage of a database queue, compared with a Redis queue, is that the entire state of every in-flight job is visible to ordinary SQL queries. Operationally this is enormously valuable: when something is wrong with a campaign at 3~AM, the on-call engineer can query the table directly to see exactly where each case is stuck. The downside is throughput -- the queue cannot handle the millions-per-second message volumes that Redis-based queues comfortably handle -- but at the campaign volumes the platform sees in production this is not a real constraint. A separate Redis-backed priority queue is used for the small subset of jobs where order-of-arrival latency is the dominant concern, in particular the auto-loading of the next case when an agent submits a disposition. The speed dialer is the part of the platform that maximises an agent's throughput. When an agent is working on a campaign, the dashboard shows the active case in a panel; the agent has the customer's phone dialled, talks to the customer, fills out a small disposition form (Promise to Pay, Wrong Number, Customer Disputes the Amount, etc.) and submits. The moment the disposition lands at the backend, the campaign workflow engine evaluates the next node for the case, the case enters a terminal-for-this-agent state, and the speed dialer fetches the next pending case in the campaign queue. The new case is pushed to the dashboard via Server-Sent Events. From the agent's point of view, the next customer is already on the screen as the previous form is closing. AI voice calling is the corollary capability that lets the platform continue working after the agent's day is over. For each campaign, a fraction of the cases are routed to the AI track rather than to a human agent. The AI track is driven by a different executor, , that picks the next AI-eligible case, fetches the tenant-configured Bolna agent ID, fetches the next phone-number-from-pool through the , builds the Bolna make-call payload from the case context and calls Bolna's REST API. Bolna places the call through Exotel, conducts the conversation under a tenant-specific prompt, and on call completion posts a webhook to our endpoint. The webhook payload contains the call disposition, the duration, a structured extraction of variables (promise-to-pay date, dispute reason, callback request), a recording URL and the latency breakdown. The parses the payload, persists the outcome, cancels any in-flight status-poll job for the same call, emits Prometheus metrics and triggers the next node in the workflow. Algorithm~ sketches the speed dialer in pseudocode. [1] : agent $A$ logged into campaign $C$ Show $A$ the first pending case in $C.queue$ $D $ agent submits disposition for current case Persist disposition and advance the workflow Cancel any pending poll jobs for the case $next $ next pending case for $A$ in $C.queue$ Show ``Campaign complete'' and break Push $next$ to dashboard via SSE The workflow engine is the most powerful single piece of platform infrastructure. A workflow is a directed graph whose nodes are concrete actions ( , , , , , etc.) and whose transitions are MVEL expressions evaluated against a context map of variables. The context map carries the case outcome, the loop counts, the AA signals, the current bucket, the time-of-day and a few other fields documented in a Markdown reference that lives in the repository. The engine itself, , is a small class that loads the workflow JSON for the tenant, walks the graph from the case's current node, evaluates each outgoing transition's MVEL expression in turn and either picks the first matching transition or, if none match, parks the case in an error state for the QA team to inspect. Workflows are versioned per tenant; a handles the case where a tenant's workflow changes mid-cycle and existing cases need to be re-mapped onto the new graph. The WhatsApp automation layer lives in the separate monorepo. It is a TypeScript / Node.js project structured as a pnpm workspace with the following sub-packages: -- the shared library: Baileys session manager, message scheduler, sender pool, anti-ban heuristics, progress tracker. -- a Hono OpenAPI REST server that exposes the core library over HTTP. -- a small React dashboard that talks to the API. -- an Electron app that packages the API and the web dashboard into a single binary for non-technical users. -- an Expo / React Native app for the Android SMS sender. The choice of Baileys over whatsapp-web.js for outbound sending was made on three grounds. First, Baileys does not require a Chromium browser; it speaks the WhatsApp WebSocket protocol directly, which makes the memory footprint of a fleet of sender workers manageable. Second, Baileys exposes the typing-presence primitives directly, which is essential for the anti-ban simulation described below. Third, Baileys' multi-file authentication state is straightforward to back up and to migrate between hosts, whereas whatsapp-web.js's Chromium profile is opaque. Each sender phone has its own session directory under , which is the on-disk representation of Baileys' multi-file authentication state. On startup, the session manager loads the state, fetches the latest WhatsApp protocol version, opens a WebSocket and waits for the QR code to be scanned by a human operator on the corresponding physical phone. Once paired, the session persists across restarts. Listing~ shows an abridged version of the session connect routine. [caption=Baileys session connect, abridged., label=lst:session, language=Java] const state, saveCreds = await useMultiFileAuthState(sessionPath); const version = await fetchLatestBaileysVersion(); const sock = makeWASocket( version, auth: state, printQRInTerminal: true, browser: ['WhatsApp Sender', 'Chrome', '120.0.0'], connectTimeoutMs: 60000, ); sock.ev.on('creds.update', saveCreds); sock.ev.on('contacts.upsert', (contacts) => for (const c of contacts) if (c.lid && c.id?.includes('@s.whatsapp.net')) setLidMapping(c.lid, c.id); saveLidMap(); ); A campaign that involves WhatsApp is associated with a pool of sender phones. The pool is configured per tenant; a typical pool is between five and fifteen consumer-grade SIMs. When the campaign starts, the scheduler computes a proportional allocation of contacts across the pool: the share of contacts assigned to each sender is roughly its daily cap divided by the total cap across the pool, capped at the sender's own daily limit. The base inter-message interval per sender is the active window divided by the contacts assigned to that sender, clamped between a minimum and a maximum. The actual interval between any two messages is the base interval plus or minus a uniformly distributed jitter of forty percent. A shared contact queue with a preferred-sender field lets a contact be ``soft-routed'' to a specific phone (typically the phone that already has an existing conversation with the customer). If the preferred sender is offline or banned, the contact falls back to whichever worker pulls next. This makes the system resilient to individual senders dying mid-cycle. The anti-ban heuristics are layered. Each is, individually, only a minor signal; together they add up to a sending pattern that closely resembles a human typing on the device. as described above, scaled to the campaign's active window. of $ $40 percent on every delay. between three and twelve messages. (one to five minutes) between batches. (ten to thirty minutes) every five batches. (default 9~AM to 9~PM IST). (default one hundred and fifty messages). : before each send, is followed by for a duration proportional to the message length, then . : every outgoing message is rendered from a template with inline alternates ( ) and optional micro-variations such as terminal-punctuation flips and zero-width-space insertion at a random character position. : a small list of phone-number prefixes (for example, regulator-side numbers) are never sent to. Block detection is a combination of explicit error matching and silent-failure handling. When Baileys returns an error whose message contains the substrings ``banned'', ``blocked'' or ``rate-limit'', the sender is taken out of rotation, the campaign's audit log records the suspected ban, and the orphaned contacts in the shared queue are re-assigned to the remaining workers. When Baileys returns a success status of zero (which the protocol uses to indicate a soft failure that does not throw), the same path is taken. A separate code path handles connection-class errors. Network drops, socket close events and timeouts are treated as transient: the session is re-opened with exponential backoff (three attempts, doubling the delay each time), and the same contact is retried with the new socket. This is important because a transient WebSocket drop is otherwise indistinguishable from a ban. The Electron desktop application packages the Node.js API, the React dashboard and (on first run) a managed Chrome installation into a single binary that an agent can install on their laptop. On launch, the application starts the embedded Hono API server on the first free port from 3002, serves the React build from disk and points a Chromium-based at the local URL. From the user's point of view, the experience is indistinguishable from a stand-alone desktop application. The application has two main jobs. The first is to run WhatsApp campaigns from the agent's own machine, with the agent's own SIM-linked phones as the sender pool. The second is to scrape the chat history of those phones at the end of every day and push the scraped data back to the central backend so that the case management dashboard can show every WhatsApp conversation alongside the call history. The scraper uses whatsapp-web.js rather than Baileys because the richer scraping job benefits from the in-browser object that the WhatsApp Web client exposes. To avoid bundling Chromium with the installer, the application uses the package to download a stable Chrome build on first run into the user's data directory. Progress is streamed back to the React UI via IPC so the user sees a meaningful loading bar rather than a frozen window during the download. The Android SMS sender app is a separate Expo / React Native project at . It is not a regular Expo Go app: it depends on a custom native module that wraps Android's class. The native module is generated through and exposes two JavaScript functions: and . Both are thin wrappers over the Android SMS APIs. The app's screen flow is straightforward. The user imports a CSV of contacts on the , edits the template on , picks the channel on and watches the send progress on . The respects a small set of throttling constants -- a per-message delay of five seconds, a batch size of five and a per-batch pause of five seconds -- to keep the SIM operator from flagging the device for abuse. A second job that runs in the background is the SMS sync. Every evening at seven o'clock Indian Standard Time, an task reads the new SMS messages from the on-device provider, zips them with the library and posts them as multipart form data to the configured webhook on the backend. The backend ingests the messages into the case timeline so the agent sees every reply alongside the rest of the case detail. A one-off analysis project in Week 4 of the internship operated on a sample of roughly forty thousand customer records exported from one of the lender tenants. The dataset combined the customer's loan information, payment history and a summary of bank-statement-derived signals. The analysis was carried out in a Jupyter notebook using for data manipulation and for visualisation. Three patterns emerged with practical implications: Customers who had paid on the first attempt in any of the previous three cycles had a ninety-percent probability of paying on the first attempt in the next cycle. These customers benefit from a low-touch single SMS reminder rather than an aggressive call campaign. Customers whose detected salary credit fell in the first three days of the month had a materially higher response rate to outreach attempted on the fourth or fifth day, after the salary had landed but before the customer had spent it down. A long tail of customers had loan ticket sizes under one thousand rupees and recovery probabilities below ten percent. The economic case for an AI voice call to such a customer is poor; a single SMS reminder is more cost-effective. These three findings fed directly into the default workflow templates that the platform ships with for new tenants. Operationally, the platform runs on AWS ECS with a single task definition per service. Metrics are emitted via Micrometer to a Prometheus registry that the Spring Boot actuator exposes on . The registry is enriched with tenant tags so that per-tenant dashboards can be cut by tenant. Sentry captures exceptions through the internal compatibility shim and ties them to release tags. ClickHouse receives a fire-and-forget event stream that is consumed by the in-product analytics dashboard. The single most useful observability investment was the standardisation of voice metric tags during the work on : every metric carries , and a tag ( vs. ) so that latency dashboards can break out turn-by-turn latency from cold and warm turns separately. Before that change, voice latency was reported as a single number and was not actionable. Across the eleven weeks tracked in the weekly progress report, the contributions I made to the platform can be grouped as follows: Case listing and case detail screens on the agent dashboard (Weeks 5 and 6). Bulk campaign creation and CSV-based execution (Week 7). Speed dialer logic and AI campaign call orchestration (Week 8). WhatsApp automation library: Baileys session management, scheduler, sender pool (Weeks 9 and 10). Multi-device rotation, block detection, message variation (Week 10). Electron desktop application, including the embedded API server and the chat-history scraper (Week 11). Android SMS sender with custom native module, SMS sync background task (Weeks 10 and 11). Python-pandas analysis of customer records (Week 4). Foundational training and code review across Weeks 1--3. This list, mapped against the nine engineering problems identified at the end of Chapter~2, covers each problem either fully or partially. The next chapter quantifies the results in production. 

 This chapter reports the quantitative and qualitative results obtained from the deployment of the AI-Based Collections Platform across the four lender tenants that were active in production during the latter half of the internship. The numbers are pulled from the in-product ClickHouse warehouse and from the Grafana dashboards that the engineering team maintains. Where the metric is sensitive (for example, lender-specific recovery percentages), the figures have been aggregated across tenants so that no individual tenant can be re-identified. The headline outcomes that the platform demonstrated in production over the three months that ran in parallel with the internship are summarised in Table~ . The baseline column reflects the lender's recovery numbers from the previous cycle, before the platform was on-boarded; the post-platform column reflects the numbers from the cycle that ran with the platform fully deployed. [H] l c c c & & & Bucket 0 collection rate & 64 Cases recovered within 5 days & 38 Promise-to-pay conversion (agents) & 42 First-call contact rate & 51 Average agent handle time (min) & 8.3 & 4.6 & $-$3.7 WhatsApp deliverability & 71 The Bucket 0 collection rate -- the percentage of cases newly entering Bucket 0 that are recovered within the same monthly cycle -- is the metric the platform is judged on. The platform-driven cohort is recovering eighty-five percent of Bucket 0 cases, compared with sixty-four percent on the agency-only baseline. The improvement is the cumulative effect of higher contact rates (the multi-channel layer), faster handling (the speed dialer), after-hours coverage (the AI voice agent) and structured prioritisation (the workflow engine). A second view of the results breaks the contact rate by channel and by attempt number. A ``contact'' for the purposes of this metric is defined as either a connected call (any call that reaches a human and is at least thirty seconds long) or a delivered WhatsApp or SMS message whose status reaches at least one tick of acknowledgement in the case of WhatsApp and a network-level delivery report in the case of SMS. [H] l c c c c & & & & Human agent call & 48 AI voice agent & 41 WhatsApp (SIM) & 88 SMS (Android) & 79 Any channel & 92 A few observations follow from Table~ . First, the AI voice agent's first-attempt contact rate of 41 percent is close to the human agent's 48 percent -- the gap exists, but it is smaller than the engineering team initially expected and reflects the maturity of the Bolna voice stack. Second, WhatsApp is by far the highest-deliverability channel; even a cold first message via a SIM-based WhatsApp number reaches the customer in 88 percent of cases. Third, the combined ``any channel'' line shows that with multi-channel orchestration the platform reaches 92 percent of customers on the first attempt and 96 percent cumulatively, which is well above what any single-channel strategy can achieve. Before the speed dialer was introduced, a typical agent on the platform handled between forty and fifty calls in an eight-hour shift. After the speed dialer was rolled out, the same agents began handling between eighty and ninety-five calls in the same shift. Figure~ sketches the per-agent calls-per-shift distribution before and after the rollout. The mean shifts from 46 calls to 87 calls; the variance, more importantly, also shrinks materially -- the speed dialer eliminates much of the agent-to-agent variation that previously came from differences in how quickly an agent could navigate the dashboard between calls. [H] lcccccccc & 20--29 & 30--39 & 40--49 & 50--59 & 60--69 & 70--79 & 80--89 & 90--99 Before speed dialer & 4 & 9 & 15 & 12 & 7 & 3 & 0 & 0 After speed dialer & 0 & 0 & 2 & 6 & 11 & 18 & 14 & 6 The handle time per call also fell substantially. Before the speed dialer, the average handle time -- defined as the time from the agent picking up a case to the disposition being submitted -- was 8.3 minutes. After the rollout it fell to 4.6 minutes. The decomposition of that 3.7-minute saving suggests that the bulk of the saving comes from the elimination of inter-call manual work (finding the next case, reading the customer history): the in-call duration itself fell by only about thirty seconds, while the inter-call interval collapsed from an average of three minutes to about ten seconds. The WhatsApp sender pool is the most operationally sensitive sub-system of the platform. Bans are routine; a sender that has been heavily used for a few weeks will eventually be flagged and require either a cool-down period or replacement. Table~ reports the empirical ban distribution observed across the five-month period in which the SIM-based WhatsApp workers were running. [H] l c c & & 0--7 & 8 8--30 & 3 31--90 & 1.5 91--180 & 0.9 180+ & 0.4 The pattern is intuitive: freshly registered numbers are flagged much more readily than aged numbers. Best practice that emerged from the data is to introduce new numbers into the pool with a low daily cap (typically thirty messages per day) for the first week, gradually raise the cap over the next three weeks, and only bring the number to its full cap of one hundred and fifty after a month of warm-up. The block detection logic was the second improvement that made a measurable difference. Before the explicit error-substring matching and the soft-failure handling were added, the median time from a ban to the operator noticing it was about eighteen hours. After the changes, the orchestrator removes a banned sender from rotation within thirty seconds of the first banned-class error and reassigns the orphan contacts immediately. The AI voice agent's performance is measured along three dimensions: latency, contact rate and disposition accuracy. The latency budget that Bolna advertises was largely upheld in production: the median turn-end-to-agent-start latency, measured on the warmer half of the turn distribution, was 690 milliseconds. The slower tail, however, is materially worse -- the 95th-percentile latency is 1.4 seconds and the 99th-percentile crosses 2.2 seconds. This tail is dominated by ASR cold starts and is being investigated as part of the next release cycle. The disposition accuracy is the share of AI-call outcomes that, when randomly sampled and reviewed by the QA team, are classified correctly. The QA portal -- which is itself a contribution that landed in production during the internship period -- samples five percent of all AI calls and routes them to a QA reviewer who relistens to the recording, reads the LLM-generated transcript and either confirms or overrides the disposition. The QA-confirmed accuracy across roughly six thousand audited calls is 91 percent. The most common disagreement type is the AI agent classifying an outcome as a Promise to Pay when the customer was actually evasive about a specific date, which is a known training data gap and is being addressed by an upstream prompt change. A handful of system-level metrics summarise the operational health of the deployment. [H] X r & Average API p50 latency & 95~ms Average API p95 latency & 410~ms Average API p99 latency & 980~ms Job queue depth at peak & 1,840 jobs Average campaign size & 4,300 cases Largest campaign processed & 41,200 cases Concurrent AI calls (peak) & 220 Active tenants & 4 Daily messages dispatched (WhatsApp) & 42,000 Daily messages dispatched (SMS) & 18,500 Daily AI calls placed & 9,600 ClickHouse events / day & 2.1~million A few observations on these numbers are worth recording. First, the API p99 latency of 980 milliseconds is dominated by a small number of campaign-creation requests where a large CSV is being parsed synchronously; the platform team is in the process of moving the parsing into an asynchronous job. Second, the job queue depth at peak (around 1,840 pending jobs) is well within the queue's capacity and the database has not become a bottleneck. Third, the daily volume of WhatsApp messages dispatched (42,000) is several times higher than what a comparable WhatsApp Cloud API deployment would be able to send for a typical lender's budget, which is consistent with the original rationale for the SIM-based approach. A complete result analysis is incomplete without a candid record of the failure modes that the team encountered in production. The three most consequential were: An early version of the Apache Solr client pool did not configure an idle-connection eviction policy. After a few days of running, the ECS task would exhaust its file descriptors and the Solr requests would begin failing. The fix was a pooled connection manager with a maximum of ten thousand connections, a thirty-second idle timeout and a five-minute eviction interval, and a hook to close the pool cleanly. Bolna posts a webhook at call termination, but the status-poll job (the original mechanism for fetching outcomes) was still being scheduled. When both arrived in the same second, the second one would attempt to advance the case from a state that the first had already moved past, leading to spurious workflow errors. The fix was to cancel the in-flight poll job as part of the webhook handling, and to set the field before any downstream node executes so that the existing guard fires for the laggard. For a brief window, Bolna changed the format of its execution-log timestamp from to . The orchestrator's parser threw, every voice metric on the workflow-poll path went dark, and we did not notice for a few hours because the webhook path was unaffected. The fix was a tolerant parser plus a Sentry alert that fires on any schema break in Bolna's payload. Each of these incidents resulted in a runbook entry, a test case and a Liquibase or configuration change that prevents recurrence. Beyond the numbers, the qualitative feedback from the stakeholders involved in the deployment was uniformly positive. The collection-agency floor managers reported that the speed dialer collapsed agent ramp-up time from a typical four weeks to under two, because new agents no longer needed to learn the dashboard navigation tricks that the speed dialer renders unnecessary. The lender-side operations team valued the in-product analytics: prior to the platform, recovery percentages were a black box and there was no objective basis on which to evaluate whether the agency was performing well; the dashboard's bucket-level and agent-level breakdowns made that conversation tractable for the first time. The compliance team valued the call-frequency guard (an explicit pre-call check that the RBI's fair-practices code requirement on the number of attempts to a delinquent customer is not violated) because it removed an entire category of audit findings from the lender's quarterly review. In short, while there are clearly more wins to be had -- the AI voice agent's tail latency, the WhatsApp ban probability for new numbers, and the still-manual nature of the lender-side allocation upload all warrant further engineering -- the platform in its current state has been a material step forward against every metric that the project set out to improve. 

 This report has documented a six-month engineering internship at Ignosis during which I contributed to a production multi-tenant AI-Based Collections Platform. The platform is now in active deployment across four lender tenants and is materially improving the recovery percentages that those lenders have historically been able to achieve. The internship took me from being an undergraduate with a working knowledge of Java and React to being an engineer comfortable shipping production code into a mature multi-tenant Spring Boot monolith, a UmiJS dashboard, a Node.js automation library and an Electron desktop client. The breadth of the platform meant that I had to learn the WhatsApp multi-device protocol and the Baileys library, the Bolna voice-agent integration model, the MVEL2 expression language and its role in our workflow engine, Liquibase migrations, Keycloak realm modelling, Apache Solr's eDisMax parser and the Ant Design Pro component library. Each of these was new at the start of the year and is, at the end of it, something I can use productively. Equally importantly the internship taught me the operational disciplines of production engineering: writing tests that exercise the real database rather than mocks, writing plans before code, writing Sentry alerts before incidents, designing for tenant isolation by default rather than retrofitting it under pressure. The headline result of the work is captured in Table~ of Chapter~4: the Bucket 0 collection rate moved from 64 percent to 85 percent, the percentage of cases recovered within the first five days of a cycle moved from 38 percent to 70 percent, and the multi-channel cumulative contact rate reached 96 percent. These numbers are a team product rather than an individual product, but the modules I contributed -- the case detail and case listing pages, the bulk campaign module, the speed dialer, the WhatsApp automation library, the Electron desktop client and the Android SMS sender -- are direct enablers of each of those numbers. The project also met every one of the nine engineering problems identified at the end of Chapter~2: cycle-level case management, comprehensive case detail, bulk campaign execution, the speed dialer, AI voice calling, WhatsApp automation, SMS automation, auditability and multi-tenant isolation. The implementations of each are not perfect, but they are in production, they are being used by real customers and they are improving the lender outcomes that the project set out to improve. A few aspects of the work could, with hindsight, have been handled better. The WhatsApp automation library went through three almost-complete rewrites during the internship: a CLI-only first version, a Hono-API second version and the multi-app monorepo third version. Each rewrite was justifiable on its own terms, but a clearer design conversation at the start of Week 9 would have avoided the second of the three. The lesson I have taken away is that for any non-trivial sub-system, a one-pager design review with the lead engineer before the first commit is cheaper than two rewrites later. The CSV upload flow for campaign creation accepted only one CSV schema in the first version and required a code change every time a tenant onboarded with a slightly different column order. The eventual refactor to a tenant-configurable column mapping should have been part of the original design. Generalising the input format up-front is, in retrospect, almost always worth doing for any feature whose data shape is supplied by the customer. The Electron application's first version embedded the Hono API server on a hard-coded port, which clashed with another process on one of the agent's machines and produced a confusing failure. The free-port-finding logic that the final version uses is mechanically straightforward, but it should have been the first version's behaviour, not a hotfix. Several capabilities are on the engineering team's roadmap for the next two quarters. Listing them here both serves as a continuation plan and indicates the direction in which the platform is evolving. The Bolna agent currently runs in Indian English with code-switching into Hindi. The next phase will introduce dedicated Tamil, Telugu, Marathi, Gujarati and Bengali agents, with the agent selected per case based on either the customer's stated preference or a language detection step at the start of the conversation. The infrastructure for the per-tenant agent registry is already in place; the work is largely in the prompt engineering and the QA review of the regional-language calls. Today the workflow engine is configured per tenant and runs the same workflow for every case in that tenant. The next-generation engine will branch dynamically based on AA-derived signals: a case where the customer's bank account shows recent salary credit will be routed to a soft channel (WhatsApp with a payment link), while a case where the customer's account is empty will be routed straight to an agent who can negotiate a settlement. The MVEL workflow engine already supports this; the missing piece is the AA-data feature store that exposes the signals to the workflow context. Bolna emits a per-turn transcript with the recorded audio. Running a lightweight sentiment classifier over the transcript in real time, and feeding the sentiment back into the conversation state, would let the agent change tack mid-call when the customer becomes hostile. The infrastructure cost of this is modest (a small inference call per turn); the engineering work is in the integration and the feedback loop with the prompt. The Python analysis described in Section~3.11 was a one-off. Productionising it as a feature -- a small machine-learning model that, given a customer's history, predicts the probability of recovery for the current cycle and ranks the case in the campaign queue accordingly -- would let the platform make more efficient use of its agent and AI capacity. The data pipeline is in place (ClickHouse has every event); what is missing is the model serving and the integration into the campaign scheduler. The current ban-detection logic is reactive. A predictive model that scores each sender phone on a daily basis and pre-emptively reduces its cap when its ``health score'' drops -- on the basis of message rejection rate, recipient block-and-report rate, delivery success rate and so on -- would let the team operate the pool more efficiently and reduce the operator-attention burden. The features for the model are already being collected; the model itself is a few days of work. The lender-side allocation upload is today operated through a CSV that a customer-success engineer at Ignosis handles manually. A self-service upload portal, with schema validation, mapping rules, dry-run preview and one-click apply, would remove a recurring source of cycle-start friction. The backend endpoints already exist; the front-end work is largely a UmiJS form and a state machine. A continuous evaluation pipeline that runs a fixed corpus of test conversations against the Bolna agent every time a prompt changes would catch regressions before they reach production. The pipeline is half-built already (a separate branch). Finishing it is a high-priority item for the next quarter. On a personal note, the internship has been the single most useful piece of engineering practice in my undergraduate degree. The opportunity to read, write and ship code into a system that is being used by real customers, to be on call for the consequences of those changes, to participate in code reviews where my suggestions sometimes won and sometimes lost, and to see a quarterly review where the numbers I had contributed to were called out by name -- these are experiences that no classroom course can provide. I am grateful to Ignosis, to my industry supervisor Mr.~Rahi Shah, to my PDEU supervisor Dr.~Punit Gupta and to the comprehensive-project programme at PDEU for making this experience possible. The work continues -- the platform is on its next minor-version cycle and the team is shipping into it every week -- but the chapter that this report captures has been completed, and the body of work documented here is a fair representation of the engineering year I have just spent. 

 This report documents a comprehensive project carried out during a full-time engineering internship at Ignosis, a fintech infrastructure company in Ahmedabad. The brief of the project was to design and contribute to an AI-Based Collections Platform that is being used by banks, non-banking financial companies and digital-lending fintechs in India for the recovery of overdue retail loan accounts. In its current form the collections process for an Indian retail lender is largely manual. Each month a fresh allocation of delinquent cases -- often running to several thousand customers per agency -- is handed over by the lender, and a team of human agents calls, follows up and persuades each customer over a roughly thirty-day cycle. The agency is paid only on recovery, which means the model is exquisitely sensitive to contact rate, agent productivity and the speed with which the right customer is reached on the right channel. Without a centralised software platform, agencies struggle to scale and lenders cannot measure performance objectively. The platform that this project contributed to addresses these gaps through a single web-based application that integrates a case management dashboard for human agents, a bulk campaign module that wraps thousands of customer cases into a single executable unit, an AI voice calling engine (built on the Bolna conversational voice provider and the Exotel telephony gateway) that runs day and night without human agents in the loop, and a multi-channel automation layer that sends WhatsApp and SMS messages from real consumer-grade SIMs to maximise the deliverability that business-class APIs cannot offer. The backend is a multi-tenant Spring Boot 3.2 monolith, the dashboard is a React application built with the UmiJS framework and the Ant Design Pro component library, and the off-platform automation tooling is a TypeScript / Node.js monorepo packaged as both a standalone CLI and an Electron desktop application. The contributions described in this report span the case detail and case listing pages of the agent dashboard; the end-to-end campaign creation, CSV upload and execution pipeline; the speed-dialer that auto-loads the next case after each call disposition is submitted; the WhatsApp automation service built on the Baileys protocol library with multi-device rotation, micro-variation message templating and proactive block-avoidance heuristics; the Electron desktop wrapper that exposes these capabilities to non-technical agents; the Android SMS sender mobile app built with React Native and a custom native module that uses the on-device SIM; and the integration of these channels with the central case management backend. A small Python-pandas analysis project on roughly forty thousand customer records is also reported. The platform is reaching an early-bucket collection rate of about eighty-five percent in production and is recovering close to seventy percent of allocated cases within the first five days of each monthly cycle, which represents a material improvement over the agency-only baseline that the lenders were previously operating with. 

